Cookie consent documentation (#623)
City-of-Helsinki/helsinki-design-system: new-site/src/docs/patterns/cookies.mdx

| **Third-party services**        | These cookies are often required when content provided by a third-party service is presented in the service.               | Not considered essential unless cookies are used only after opening the third-party service (e.g. a chat window).                                                           | Cookies used by embedded media such as videos or podcasts                                 |
| **Displaying content**          | Cookies are used to present specific content.                                                                                  | Can be considered essential if the cookie is strictly related to presenting the content and not gathering data.                                                             | Monitoring how the user is using specific content                                         |

> | **Location**                    | Cookies are used to store an accurate location of the user’s device.                                                           | Never essential.                                                                                                                                                            | Accurate GPS location                                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Location**                    | Cookies are used to store the accurate location of the user’s device.                                                           | Never essential.                                                                                                                                                            | Accurate GPS location                                                                     |
```

- There may be elements or content on your page that do not work properly until the user gives consent to cookies. It is recommended to show clear error messages at the position of these elements to indicate why they are not available.
  - If your page has a chat button in the lower right corner, keep the chat button hidden until cookie consent has been accepted and removed from the DOM.

### What happens after the user has accepted or denied the non-essential cookies?
- The user must be able to view and edit the cookie consent after they have initially submitted their choices. You must offer a separate cookies page that allows changing viewing the cookies and changing consent.
  - The link to this page should be placed on the footer element of the page.
  - Note that the HDS CookieConsent component offers functionality to render it as a page. This allows you to use the same component and data to construct a separate cookie page.
- If new cookies are added or current ones changed, consent should be asked from the user again the next time the service is used.

## Common cookies between *.hel.fi sites

> Using common cookie component brings the benefit of sharing consents. If user gives consents at site A, same consents does not have to be asked again at site B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a common cookie component brings the benefit of sharing consent. If a user gives consents at site A, the same consents do not have to be asked again at site B.
```
